SSH Remote Port Forwarding
The remote port forwarding feature in SSH
can be thought of as the reverse of local
port forwarding,
because a port is opened on the remote
side of the connection
and traffic sent to that port is
forwarded to a port on our local machine,
where we run the SSH command.
In short, connections to the specified
port on the remote host
will be forwarded to the specified port
on the local machine.
This can be best shown with a new
scenario.
In this case, we have access to a
non-root shell
on a Linux client on the internal network.
On this compromised machine,
we discover that a MySQL server is
running on TCP port 3306.
Unlike the previous scenario, the
firewall is blocking inbound connections
on port 22, so we can’t SSH into this
server
from our Internet-connected Kali machine.
We can, however, SSH from this server out
to our Kali machine,
since outbound TCP port 22 is allowed
through the firewall.
We can use SSH remote port forwarding to
open a port on our Kali machine
machine that forwards traffic to the MySQL
port on the internal server.
All forwarded traffic will traverse the
SSH tunnel, right through the firewall.
In order to simulate this scenario, we
will run the ssh remote
port forwarding script on our dedicated
Linux client.
That will only allow inbound traffic on
port 3389,
and will not restrict any outbound
traffic.
The ssh command syntax to create this
tunnel will include the local IP and port,
the remote IP and port and -R to create a
remote forward.
In this case, we will ssh out to our Kali
machine as the kali user,
specify no commands,
and a remote forward,
that will open a listener on TCP port
2221 on our Kali machine,
and forward connections to the internal
Linux machine’s port 3306.
This will forward all incoming traffic on
our Kali system’s local port 2221
to port 3306 on the compromised box
through an SSH tunnel
allowing us to reach the MySQL port even
though it is blocked at the firewall.
With the tunnel up, we can switch to our
Kali machine,
confirm that TCP port 2221 is listening,
and use nmap to scan the port on our
localhost,
which will scan the target’s MySQL
server.
Knowing that we can scan the port,
we should have no problem interacting
with the MySQL service.